DOCSUP-10293: Documented the optimize_functions_to_subcolumns setting (#25607)
ClickHouse/ClickHouse: docs/en/operations/settings/settings.md

Default value: 0.

## optimize_functions_to_subcolumns {#optimize-functions-to-subcolumns}

> Optimizes functions (if possible) by transforming them to read the subcolumns. This reduces the amount of read data. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enables or disables optimization by transforming some functions to reading subcolumns. This reduces the amount of data to read. 
```

> These function can be tranformed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These functions can be transformed:
```

-   [length](../../sql-reference/functions/array-functions.md#array_functions-length) to read the [size0](../../sql-reference/data-types/array.md#array-size) subcolumn.

> -   [empty](../../sql-reference/functions/array-functions.md#function-empty) to read the [size0](../../sql-reference/data-types/array.md#array-size) subcolumn.

Reviewer 2: Maybe add expressions to which functions are transformed?

For example:
```empty(arr) -> arr.size0 = 0```

Author: Added expressions to function descriptions instead.

> -   [length](../../sql-reference/functions/array-functions.md#array_functions-length) to read subcolumn [size0](../../sql-reference/data-types/array.md#array-size).
> -   [empty](../../sql-reference/functions/array-functions.md#function-empty) to read subcolumn [size0](../../sql-reference/data-types/array.md#array-size).
> -   [notEmpty](../../sql-reference/functions/array-functions.md#function-notempty) to read subcolumn [size0](../../sql-reference/data-types/array.md#array-size).
> -   [isNull](../../sql-reference/operators/index.md#operator-is-null) to read subcolumn [null](../../sql-reference/data-types/nullable.md#finding-null).
> -   [isNotNull](../../sql-reference/operators/index.md#is-not-null) to read subcolumn [null](../../sql-reference/data-types/nullable.md#finding-null).
> -   [count](../../sql-reference/aggregate-functions/reference/count.md) to read subcolumn [null](../../sql-reference/data-types/nullable.md#finding-null).
> -   [mapKeys](../../sql-reference/functions/tuple-map-functions.md#mapkeys) to read subcolumn [keys](../../sql-reference/data-types/map.md#subcolumn-keys).
> -   [mapValues](../../sql-reference/functions/tuple-map-functions.md#mapvalues) to read subcolumn [values](../../sql-reference/data-types/map.md#subcolumn-values).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   [length](../../sql-reference/functions/array-functions.md#array_functions-length) to read the [size0](../../sql-reference/data-types/array.md#array-size) subcolumn.
-   [empty](../../sql-reference/functions/array-functions.md#function-empty) to read the [size0](../../sql-reference/data-types/array.md#array-size) subcolumn.
-   [notEmpty](../../sql-reference/functions/array-functions.md#function-notempty) to read the [size0](../../sql-reference/data-types/array.md#array-size) subcolumn.
-   [isNull](../../sql-reference/operators/index.md#operator-is-null) to read the [null](../../sql-reference/data-types/nullable.md#finding-null) subcolumn.
-   [isNotNull](../../sql-reference/operators/index.md#is-not-null) to read the [null](../../sql-reference/data-types/nullable.md#finding-null) subcolumn.
-   [count](../../sql-reference/aggregate-functions/reference/count.md) to read the [null](../../sql-reference/data-types/nullable.md#finding-null) subcolumn.
-   [mapKeys](../../sql-reference/functions/tuple-map-functions.md#mapkeys) to read the [keys](../../sql-reference/data-types/map.md#subcolumn-keys) subcolumn.
-   [mapValues](../../sql-reference/functions/tuple-map-functions.md#mapvalues) to read the [values](../../sql-reference/data-types/map.md#subcolumn-values) subcolumn.
```

Possible values:

> -   0 — Disabled.
> -   1 — Enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   0 — Optimization disabled.
-   1 — Optimization enabled.
```
